#summary Stuff about houses that I've picked up

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Introduction =

Exactly what I've put in the summary.  This is a collection of snippets of information that might come in handy when looking for, or building onto a new house.


= Buying =

When buying a property, make sure all the fees are thought about well in advance.  These will include: stamp duty, mortgage fees, surveyor fees, enviro searches, land registry fees, engrossment fee, moving costs, white goods, furniture, insurance, factor fees on private land, and solicitors fees.

Also, it would be good to install the [http://www.property-bee.com/ Property Bee] firefox toolbar.  So when you view a property listing on a site like rightmove.co.uk, the toolbar will show the changes to the price and details since the property was listed.

Property

  * When buying a house, look out for papered ceilings as it could be hiding a multitude of sins.
  * Tiled rooves need to be replaced every 50 years or so.  Look for fractures in the tiles, and plant life growing as tell tale signs.  Maybe take some binoculars with you to have a good look at the front and back.
  * Always take into account the direction of the sun in the afternoon.  South-west facing gardens get more sun because in the Northern Hemisphere, the sun is below the zenith during its observed travel from east to west and hence if you are facing south, the sun is shining directly on you during the day. If you are facing North, the sun is shining on your back and in the case of a garden, the shadow of the house blocks the sun most of the time.  With south-west too, the front of the property will be north east (i.e., gets the morning sun so has a chance to heat up/get some natural light).  Whichever way the garden faces check out what is around it. Surrounding buildings and large trees may block out the sun at different times of the day.
  * Always get a full survey. ^1^
  * Assume the worst, especially when it comes to boilers and electrics. ^1^
  * Never buy a property that has had major damp or dry rot problems. ^1^
  * There's no harm in making an offer lower than the asking price. If the builders aren't willing to drop then try and get some freebies thrown in like carpets and vinyl, turf for the garden, stamp duty paid, etc. ^1^
  * Drive round the area at different times of day (we tried midnight at weekends etc). By doing this we managed to discount loads of houses that looked good inside but the area wasn't too good in the evening; saved the time on viewings. ^1^
  * Get a copy of the title plan and deeds from the land registry before you put an offer in. My Brother in Law didn't and only found out much later that the garden was not included in the deeds. Because he hadn't spent a few pounds getting it online, it cost him several hundred in solicitors fees etc. Ouch. ^1^
  * Test everything, every light switch, every plug, the cooker, the taps, the toilet. It's annoying when you find out afterwards what doesnt work. ^1^
  * Don't be afraid to throw your weight about making demands. You're spending an absolute shed-load of money and it'll take you years to pay it off. Be cheeky, if you don't ask, you won't get. ^1^
  * Write into any contract that the seller must leave the house within X days, regardless of if they have a property to move into or not. -Ken Crabtree
  * When the survey talks about the "higher maintenance costs associated with a property of this type and age", find out what that means in practice and with real money. ^1^
  * Check the size of the garden, especially if you are buying a house that could be sold on to a family. Postage stamp-sized gardens will take longer to sell. ^1^
  * Next time I buy a place, (last 2 have had awful neighbours one side), I will draw up a legally binding questionnaire for the sellers regarding the neighbours. If they don't want to complete it then you know why. ^1^
  * Location, location, location... is paramount. Beware of buying a property that has been built on a floodplain. The EA may tell you it has never flooded, try getting a good buildings insurance quote on one - you won't. ^1^
  * When looking around, show no interest, just ask for the details. By the time we'd finished looking round, the word 'discount' had been mentioned more than a few times! ^1^
  * Do your homework - lots of good resources on this site to check house prices, flood areas, noise, crime rates, planning applications etc. Don't make any assumptions, take the time to do these checks. ^1^
  * Check the type of lease is on the property.  Freehold, commonhold, [http://www.lease-advice.org/ leasehold]. -Paul W
  * Make sure the gas and boiler are safe, and working properly.  Not sure if this is included in the HIPs? -Paul W
  * Go to "[http://www.propertysnake.co.uk/ Property Snake]" website and see how long the house has been on the market. If it has been hanging about, there may well be an issue. ^1^
  * Go to "[http://www.nethouseprices.com/ Net House Prices]" or "[http://www.zoopla.co.uk/ Zoopla]" website and see what the house last sold for (and equivalent houses in the area). If you find discrepancies, try to establish why. ^1^
  * Go to "[http://www.upmystreet.com/ Up My Street]" website and see stats on the local area, crime figures, education, council tax. ^1^
  * Cars in the area, have a look at the cars in the area, are they clean/new/maintained. Should give you an impression of the area.  Walk to the local shops, are they the type of shops you would go into?  Look in the loft, (I never did this) and regret not recognising the poor state of wood work in the house. ^1^
  * Get an electrical periodic done. We didn't (its £100) and we had to rewire at the cost of 3k. ^1^
  * Make sure you get a full list of everything that is being left in the house and what isn't. My 1st house, we didn't and they took all light fittings, the ends off the aerial cords, the black bin and the fire grate. ^1^
  * Ask vendors to put the heating on and check the downstairs radiators are hot (the survey doesn't check this) ^1^
  * Try the shower (make sure it has pressure and gets hot) ^1^
  * Get any promises (like including the furniture with the sale) from the vendor in writing.
  * Check out whether you have to pay someone to manage the land around your house, i.e. communal parks, or just grass and plants by the path. Many newer estates are NOT covered by the council for this and have to pay extra on top of their council tax (which of course pays for the other estates parks, grass cutting etc.!) ^1^
  * Think about moving into a property right beside a... train line, car park, woodland path (if youngsters might use it for motorbikes or late night jollies), pedestrian crossing, hospital, or school. ^1^
  * Checking boundaries is a good idea. -Paul W
  * [http://forums.moneysavingexpert.com/showpost.html?p=29323949&postcount=107 Land registry example] - Mock document explaining what each part explains. ^1^
  * When you put your offer in to buy a property, ask for the carpets to be included in the asking price if they are in a reasonable condition, as you can get new ones as & when you can afford to and won't be left with bare floorboards on the day you move in. ^1^
  * I can't stress how important car parking is after all the house shows I've watched! -Paul W
  * Make sure delivery drivers can park and unload without any problems; some of them will make up excuses so they won't deliver to your property. ^1^
  * Go on google earth or google maps and have a look at the property from above and also at properties in the area. You can see into the neighbours gardens - are they well maintained, do they have trampolines, what extensions they have done etc. Also it can give you an idea of what extensions you could do etc. ^1^ `Remember thought that Google Maps are out of date, so the site could be a lot different now. -Paul W`
  * Also get on to the local council site and look to see what planning applications have been done on the property, have they been accepted/rejected etc. Also look what other properties have had done. ^1^
  * Also find out what Council tax band the property is so you can accurately budget for it. ^1^
  * When you go on your first viewing, take a camcorder if you have one if not take your camera `(obviously asking the vendors permission 1st)`, and take notes `(this allows you to reflect fully on the property and act as a reminder when all the houses blur into one!)`. Then rather than having rose tinted glasses when trying to remember the property after the visit you will be able to actually see it from your photos and videos. ^1^
  * The photo's taken by the agent will be taken in such a way as to make the room look bigger than they are so bare that in mind when looking at the brochure. Also when looking at the brochure bare in mind what isn't in there, for example why haven't they included a photo of the bathroom for example? Probably because it is not overly nice. ^1^
  * What is the TV aerial like? Is it a new one that will get digital or will you need to pay for a new one? Does the property have a Sky dish if you plan to have Sky this might save you the installation cost if not budget for it. ^1^
  * Knowing what services are available and where they run is important: Drains - who owns? Shared? Suitable for extension or an obstacle (a septic tank can actually save you money) Water? Electric? Gas? Phone? Cable? Broadband? Rights of way? Easements? Ancient lights? Party wall agreements (All rights over "your" land available to neighbours - eg a sewer pipeline). ^1^
  * [http://www.problemneighbours.co.uk/what-are-restrictive-covenants.html RESTRICTIVE covenants]: stop others doing things. e.g., restrictive covenant on deeds that does not allow cars to be parked on the front garden of the house. POSITIVE covenants: forcing a neighbour to do something by and large doesn't exist BUT "good fences make good neighbours". ^1^
  * "Adopted" road/access - where is the boundary? (You might own the road outside!) ^1^
  * Freeholders: Both vendor's solicitor and my solicitor claimed she could not be found, so the sale was "absent freeholder" purchase, which apparently was common. a week after completion she turned up on my doorstep demanding service charges payable by the previous leaseholder. If I hadn't been so naive, I would have written a letter to the freeholders home address myself, which was noted on the title deeds (I didn't know it was OK to do this, as my solicitor told me it was up to the vendors solicitor to get in touch with her). ^1^
  * Don't ever buy a leasehold flat. It will ruin your life. The end. ^1^
  * Think about creating a spreadsheet to calculate the total floor area of each property you look at, so you can work out the price per square metre. ^1^
  * Check to see if the neighbours have right of way through your property.  Good neighbours is fine, but if they sell on, bad neighbours might be a nightmare. ^1^
  * Don't rely on others to contact the vendor for you. Keep in touch with the vendor yourself - try to maintain cordial relations, even if they're being a complete pain (the guy I bought from was). As a first-time buyer, you may be inexperienced, but you're in control of your vendor's destiny and of everyone else in the chain, so stand your ground! Always tell your solicitor anything that the vendor tells you. ^1^
  * Check the property as much as you can prior to exchange of contracts. Don't rely on the survey alone, even if it's a full structural survey. In my case I had a homebuyer survey done but I think half a day looking all around the house (from roof to floor) with a good builder would have cost less, and would have revealed more than a one-hour survey. Having said that, many problems with houses are unfortunately hidden behind plasterboard, wallpaper and carpets - you might not find out about all the problems until after you buy. ^1^
  * Get a timber and damp inspection (but be aware they can often mis-diagnose damp problems, so get more than one), an electrical inspection, a gas safety inspection. Don't take them as gospel, but if they show up problems then tell the vendor about it look at whether to re-negotiate the price. Even what might seem like minor refurbishments to a house can be complex and expensive. ^1^
  * If you see a better house while you're in the process of buying, or you get a bad feeling about the house, don't be afraid to pull out. Until you exchange contracts, you're free to pull out at any time. Don't worry about the wasted solicitors fees, surveys etc. if you pull out - far better to lose 500-1000 pounds than to end up in the wrong house. ^1^
  * Check how old the wiring is, and how many plug sockets are around - in older places there are far fewer plug sockets and you may need to factor in the cost of getting extra ones installed, not expensive if your wiring's up to date, but otherwise can be pricey if you need a lot of rewiring. ^1^
  * If something shows up on your survey, get a second opinion - no matter how minor it may seem. ^1^
  * No off road parking could spell parking wars, especially if you have more than one household car. We had the car keyed several times by disgruntled residents over where we parked. ^1^
  * Ask to see the meters and a bill to confirm who supplies your gas or electricity. You can change your supplier once you've settled in, but you need to supply correct opening reads to the right company! ^1^
  * Question vendor if all the walls have been painted white. Yes it's neutral BUT it also hides minor cracks very well! They are very noticable once you've redecorated. ^1^
  * Some stuff stored in the attic has drip marks on it, so I'd advise looking in the attic during daylight hours so you can see any crack or holes in the tiles. ^1^
  * Even though we saw the previous tenants parked on the drive our cars wont fit as they are not 4x4's. The floor clearance from road to pavement to driveway is too low and our cars would grounded if we tried, so we have to park on the road. ^1^
  * If you're buying a house that needs redecorating, try to get the redecoration done before moving your possessions in - you'll have lots more room to move, and the job will get done much quicker. ^1^
  * Determine what you are prepared to pay for the property (irrespective of what they are asking) and stuck to that price or walk away. ^1^
  * Never be desperate for a place to live when buying a property - rather rent another few months. ^1^
  * Never ever ever ever buy a house with artexed walls. Please don't put it on your walls. Dirt, cobwebs and insects stick to it like glue so your house never looks clean. You will spend years trying to get the stuff off, all of your textiles will be caked in it, even if you seal off rooms and cover furniture. You will have to re-plaster the walls and it is disgusting. I don't know why, but when we went to look at a new build house, they said all ceilings would be artexed and they could not negotiate that point. Nutters! ^1^
  * Always expect that Frank Spencer has done every piece of DIY work in the house if it is an old one. Also expect to have to undo everything and do 10 other things you didn't expect to do before you start on a job. ^1^

Solicitors

  * Watch out for additional clauses, have someone you trust look over paperwork. We signed everything the solicitor sent us, not fully understanding it all and ended up with a £300 extra bill. ^1^
  * Make sure all hidden charges are clearly outlined before using a solicitor.  Ask them to be transparent about the fees.  Watch out for dirty tricks with hidden fees right near the completion date, as this is when they get sneaky.  Opt out of fast-track services early on for example.
  * Don't use ones recommended by the builder/contractor/property company.  They'll be pants. -Paul W
  * Ask the solicitor if they are going on holiday at any point in the next 3 months from your offer being put in, if so, go elsewhere. ^1^
  * Badger your solicitor the week before completion; it was only by chance that I phoned up two days before completing and asked when they wanted the deposit money. They were genuinely surprised that I hadn't paid it already, despite not being requested or told where to pay to. ^1^
  * Solicitors are expensive, full stop. Having said that, the other side will pay your legal fees if you tell them you're not buying if they dont! This should also stop them from messing about later if they have to pay two lots of fees. ^1^ `This might not be as easy as it sounds, might be better trying to get them to pay stamp duty instead -Paul W`
  * Personally, I find it hard to choose a firm without first having had a breakdown of their costs and service, and having had the opportunity to speak to them on the phone. If you have the impression from your first phone call that theyre professional, curteous and on the ball, chances are they will be for the duration of your transaction. ^1^
  * If they don't meet your expectations, you'll gain little from ranting and screaming at them usually. Usually a word to the effect that you're going to invoke their complaints procedure delivers the kick in the pants they need, failing that a letter to one of the senior partners works wonders. ^1^
  * If you get a bad solicitor who acts unprofessionally, always consider reporting them to the Law Society. ^1^
  * Get your will done with your solicitor at the time as most will do it for free since they are already being paid. ^1^
  * Use a solicitor who is local to the property for conveyancing. Ring around for prices: they shouldn't vary that much, so pick the company who seems most professional and helpful and answers the phone/e-mail. Solicitors fees are exorbitant, but at least they're not as much as a rip-off as estate agents! ^1^
  * Hassle your solicitor as frequently as needed, you're paying them so you have every right to ask them as many questions as needed, and if you haven't heard anything for a while then ring them and ask for updates. ^1^
  * Probably the most important thing for first time buyers is that this is the easiest purchase you will ever make as your not in a chain. Use this to your advantage. If you can find someone who is ready to move then use your position as a bargaining tool to bring the price down. ^1^

Mortgage advisor / mortgages

  * Make sure the advisor youre picking is an IFA - Independant Financial Advisor.  They are not affiliated to a bank or product, and are therefore not fettered in their ability to find you the best deals available. ^1^
  * As with solicitors, the best thing is to call a few to get some quotes, and judge how well you think you'll get on with them during your telephone call. Remember, this person is going to have access to all your financial details, so for me picking someone you generally feel comfortable with is a good guiding light. ^1^
  * Ask the EA if the house you are viewing is in a chain, or if they can move out quickly.  Stipulate in the offer that you need the vendor to have everything completed and be out by XXX date; if they can't comply with that tell them you're not interested. -Ken Crabtree
  * Learn all you can about mortgages. If you're overpaying, you may struggle getting a new mortgage at a better rate because of your overpayments. -Paul W

Estate agents

  * Estate agents can put a spin on things, but they can't lie to you. Ask them direct questions like "Have there been any disputes with neighbours?", "How many viewings have you had?", "How many offers have you had?", "What renovations have been done on the house?", "How old is the boiler?" etc. They must answer truthfully. If they don't know, ask them to ask the vendor. Note the answers and tell the solicitors what they said. ^1^
  * If you make an offer on a house, the estate agent cannot legally reject it without first asking the vendor. ^1^
  * Don't ever trust anything said by the vendor or estate agent, they are trying to sell. If you have any queries get the answers in writing. ^1^
  * Keep your cards close to your chest and if the estate agent phoned and tell you other people are interested or about to view etc - be cool and don't say anything or show emotion. Be prepared to walk away. ^1^

Surveyor

  * Ensure surveyor is RICS chartered. Get a full survey for older houses.
  * Use a surveyor who is not tied to an estate agents, but an independent.

Materials & labour

  * Always get 3 quotes for the same job. ^1^
  * Kitchens can be brought up to date simply by replacing the doors and worktop surfaces.

Final check

Trust no one. Apply common sense. Do the research for yourself. That includes surveying - yes, get a full structural survey but, as someone else pointed out, do as much as you can yourself too. Be observant and look at it as a house, not a home. Open/close every door and window, look behind furniture on outside walls for signs of damp (grey mould), try every tap, toilet and especially shower, try as many switches and sockets as possible, make sure all the rads get hot right across their surface. Go up in the loft and check the roof timbers for rot, and so on. Are the door locks up to insurance standards (generally 5-lever mortcie deadlocks)? Check outside for cracks in the walls, bridged damp proof course, rotten woodwork (take a screwdriver and try sticking it in wooden window frames and sills). Take binoculars and check the roof for missing/slipped tiles and the gutters and woodwork for signs of problems (ideally, go on a wet day and see if there are leaks from the gutters). If you're feeling brave, lift the drain covers, have someone flush a toilet and check that the drains flow well; look for roots/debris/damage in the manholes. This should not be on your first visit but the final one before committing to buy. Ensure the estate agent makes a long enough appointment for you to be able to do all those things or at least as many as you feel up to.


= Selling =

  * If you're looking to up the value of your property with a loft conversion.  Check the local properties to see if the extra room will take the number of rooms in the house, to a level where there is a shortage in the area.  Else it's not worth it.
  * If you have a great garden, think about selling in the spring or summer, so what is a casual glance in the colder months, becomes a main selling point in the warmer months.
  * Don't have a coloured bathroom suite.
  * Use expensive fittings to get the best out of a bathroom sale.


= House types =

Period houses
  * When taking wall paper off period houses, the plaster will most likely come off.  Added expenses.
  * Look under the carpets and check the finish/state of the floors.
  * You obviously have to expect a fair bit of on-going maintenance with old buildings, but one thing I'd like people to bear in mind is the condition of also the buildings above/below and either side of yours. If your elderly property neighbours a property that is not well maintained - it is likely cause you problems! ^1^


= Sections =

Extensions
  * When building extensions, always go for pitched roofs, as flat ones will always give you trouble.

Misc
  * If you knock through walls to join two rooms, think about families, and how they would prefer to have two separate spaces.  One for the kids, and one for themselves.


= Misc =

  * Textured ceilings (artexed) where there is limited light draws the light in, and gives nothing out.  Think about smoothing them off.
  * Depending on the type of house (victorian, older houses), think about going for wooden framed double glazing rather than PVC.  If they retain the original sash windows, do not replace them (it'll cost a fortune), and secondary glaze, or get units to fit the existing windows.
  * Every main room should have a centrepiece, without it, there is no focal point.
  * A downstairs toilet needs to be near the main soil pipe.  Don't even think about putting one on the other side of the house!
  * Know when enough is enough, don't over-develop your property as it could damage it in the long run.


= References =

When buying your first property, some of the tips above were taken from the moneysavingexpert forum.  Below are links to references I've used to compile the list above.

  * ^1^ [http://forums.moneysavingexpert.com/showthread.html?t=2218071 What I wish I'd known before I bought my 1st home]
  * [http://forums.moneysavingexpert.com/showthread.html?t=209805 1st time buyers guide]
  * [http://www.problemneighbours.co.uk/what-are-restrictive-covenants.html Restrictive covenants]