#summary jQuery snippets

= Introduction =

Snippets of useful stuff I've found for jQuery.  I will include links and code so that I can refer to it in the future.


= Code =

== Message fade in and out ==

The thing that is different about this message fade, is the [http://plugins.jquery.com/project/delayer delay timer] that I use.  This prevents the timeouts from getting too funked if multiple calls to displayMessage() are called in quick succession.

{{{

Javascript:
    var messageDelayer=delayTimer(2000);

    function delayTimer(delay){
         var timer;
         return function(fn){
              timer=clearTimeout(timer);
              if(fn)
                   timer=setTimeout(function(){
                   fn();
                   },delay);
              return timer;
         }
    }

    function displayMessage(message) {
        $("#message").html(message).fadeIn(function(){
             messageDelayer(function(){
                  $("#message").fadeOut("fast");
             });
        });
    }

    displayMessage("hello there");

CSS:
    #message {
    	font-size: 1em;
    	top: 1em;
    	right: 1em;
    	width: 350px;
    	display: none;
    	padding: 1em;
    	background: #ffc;
    	border: 1px solid #dda;
    }

HTML:
    <div id="message" class="ui-corner-all"></div>

}}}

= Plugins =

jQuery plugins that I have found useful at some point:
  * [http://plugins.jquery.com/project/Growl-for-the-net-and-jQuery Growl] - This is an excellent way to send notices to users.  There is also a version similar to this called [http://boedesign.com/2009/07/11/growl-for-jquery-gritter/ Gritter], but that is too css/js heavy, whilst not giving it a better overall impression. Not IE friendly atm!
  * [http://www.redredred.com.au/projects/jquery-week-calendar/ Week calendar]
  * [http://www.sandbox.timbenniks.com/projects/jquery-notice/ jQuery notice] Excellent, streamlined jQuery notice plugin. IE friendly!
  * [http://plugins2.jquery.com/project/stickyfloat Sticky float] - Would be useful for a sticky like replacement for my autoform.
  * [http://plugins2.jquery.com/project/calc Calc] - When replacing autoform, this will be good for the order system part.
  * [http://plugins2.jquery.com/project/constrain Constrain] This would be good for autoform, restricting PAs to only insert certain information
  * [http://plugins2.jquery.com/project/databind Data bind] Bind data to elements based on id etc... Would be useful if I ever got around to writing a wallboard or something.
  * [http://plugins2.jquery.com/project/field Field] Expands things u can do with form fields.  Shift click to select multiple checkboxes etc.
  * [http://plugins2.jquery.com/project/Live-Extension Live extension]
  * In place editors
    * [http://plugins2.jquery.com/project/edit_in_place Edit in place] Seems ok, a more useful version could supercede this.
    * [http://plugins2.jquery.com/project/Editable Editable] - Better version, not enough examples.
  * Checkboxes
    * [http://plugins2.jquery.com/project/shiftclick Shiftclick] - Holding shift selects multiple checkboxes.
  * [http://www.keyframesandcode.com/resources/javascript/jQuery/demos/highlight-demo.html Highlight] - Highlights form parents, table rows, individual cells etc. Quite cool. Its also an example of creating a plugin with using the $ character.