#summary Techniques or interesting things about memory

= Introduction =

I am planning to use 2011 to improve my memory, as well as fun facts and trivia.  I will need to use current techniques I have already mastered, as well as condition myself to believe I can keep it up.


= Training =

I read some an interesting page at [http://www.markchannon.com/thoughts/training-for-the-2010-memory-championships markchannon.com] which gave some useful tips for preparing myself for memorising.
  * Leverage - I need to think of a reason why I'm going to memorise facts and trivia.  I'm thinking for work and self-improvement.  Eventually when I have children, I'd like to be able to pass on my knowledge and skills.
  * Health & Fitness - If I'm not fit there is no way I'll have the energy to memorise things after work.
  * Conditioning - Without the belief that I'm going to succeed this time around, I won't do it.  By reinforcing my belief that I'll be able to accomplish my goal, I'll have a much better chance.
  * Training partner - I need to find someone who will be up for memorising the same kind of information I will be.  2 is always better than 1.


= References =

  * [http://www.markchannon.com/ Mark Channon, old school Memory Master]
  * [http://jjhayes.hubpages.com/hub/How-To-Memorize-A-Poem How to memorize poems/lyrics] - This actually works very well, I memorised 'Where the sidewalk ends' by Shel Silverstein.


= Misc =

Other stuff I might feel like remembering.  I'm actually quite interested in quotes at the moment.

  * [http://www.great-quotes.com/quotes/author//Aesop]
  * [http://www.whysanity.net/monos/victor_borge.html]