#summary Mortgages and things to watch out for

= Introduction =

It might still be a while before I need to do anything about getting a mortgage but over time I have read things which will come in handy when I eventually try and get one.  This document outlines things I thought necessary to remember.

== Variable rate mortgage ==

The loan may be offered at the lender's standard variable rate/base rate. There may be a direct and legally defined link to the underlying index but where the lender offers no specific link to the underlying market of index they can choose to increase or decrease at their discretion.

In American these are referred to as 'adjustable rate mortgages' which is a lot clearer to understand!

  * Check to see what the interest rate is linked to.  Without a link to a direct or legally defined link, they can increase of decrease at their discretion. 

== Considerations ==

  * Additional fees
   # Ask about additional fees when getting a mortgage.  Some have a closing payment fee for example.
  * Overpayments
   # Inquire about how much I can overpay, some restrict overpayments to 10%.
   # Ask if I can take a payment break with any money that has been overpaid for a particular year.
   # Make sure I am not penalised for being more thrifty!
   # When overpaying on fixed deals, make sure there is no penalty for overpaying so much that you finish the mortgage before the fixed term ends.
   # Find out when interest is calculated, for fixed/flexible mortgages, you need to get one which calculates it daily so that it has an immediate impact.

= Links =

== Calculators ==

  * [http://www.mortgagesexposed.com/Spreadsheets/Flexible%20Mortgages.xls Spreadsheet for mortgage overpayments]
  * [http://new.egg.com/visitor/0,2388,3_54988--View_1028,00.html Egg calculator for overpayments] - I prefer this one
  * [http://www.quote-engine.com/financial-calculators.html Link to lots of different calculators]

= References =

  * [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UK_mortgage_terminology UK Mortgage Terminology]