#summary Stuff about houses that I've picked up

= Introduction =

Exactly what I put in the summary.  This is a collection of snippets of information that might come in handy when looking for, or building onto a new house.


= House types =

Period houses
  * When taking wall paper off period houses, the plaster will most likely come off.  Added expenses.
  * Look under the carpets and check the finish/state of the floors.

= Sections =

Extensions
  * When building extensions, always go for pitched roofs, as flat ones will always give you trouble.

Misc
  * If you knock through walls to join two rooms, think about families, and how they would prefer to have two separate spaces.  One for the kids, and one for themselves.

= Selling a house =

  * Don't have a coloured bathroom suite.
  * Use expensive fittings to get the best out of a bathroom sale.

= Misc =

  * Always take into account the direction of the sun in the afternoon.  South-west facing gardens get more sun because in the Northern Hemisphere, the sun is below the zenith during its observed travel from east to west and hence if you are facing south, the sun is shining directly on you during the day. If you are facing North, the sun is shining on your back and in the case of a garden, the shadow of the house blocks the sun most of the time.
  * Textured ceilings (artexed) where there is limited light draws the light in, and gives nothing out.  Think about smoothing them off.
  * Depending on the type of house (victorian, older houses), think about going for wooden framed double glazing rather than PVC.  If they retain the original sash windows, do not replace them (it'll cost a fortune), and secondary glaze, or get units to fit the existing windows.
  * Every main room should have a centrepiece, without it, there is no focal point.