#summary Perl stuff


= Introduction =

Bits and bobs relating to Perl.


= POE =

 * POE example using POE::Filter::Line [http://cpansearch.perl.org/src/RCAPUTO/POE-Filter-Snort-0.031/Snort.pm internally].


= MVC = 

 * Catalyst - feature risk, but difficult to pick up.
 * Mojo - Awesomely simple, yet powerful web framework.
 * [http://blog.kraih.com/perl-is-ready-for-html5 Websockets] - Cross browser Websockets and stuff


= Mojolicious =

== Database handling ==

 * Use DBIx::Class or DBIx::Connector for thread and fork safety.
 * You must not connect to database in startup() method.
 * Database initialization process must be written as default value of has function or attr method.
 * Using with [https://github.com/kraih/mojo/wiki/Hypnotoad-prefork-web-server hypnotoad]
 * Using with [https://github.com/tempire/MojoExample/blob/master/lib/MojoFull.pm DBIx::Class]


= Wiki =

For an upcoming project, I have decided to include a messaging system.  The messaging system will typically accept google wiki style formatting, compile it, then store it in the database.

I have decided to use `Text::GooglewikiFormat` to do the formatting as I believe it will be the easiest for people to pick up.


= Software =

 * [https://raw.github.com/amenonsen/gmail-mirror/master/gmail-mirror Gmail mirror perl script]


= To read =

 * Perl Best Practices (2005)


= Misc =

 * [http://toroid.org/ams/time-profiler Nice postgresql table for new CAAMS activity]
 * [https://gist.github.com/3549368 Using redis for online count]
 * [http://search.cpan.org/~symkat/Daemon-Control-0.000009/lib/Daemon/Control.pm Daemon::Control] - For writing LSB compatible init.d scripts