#summary Stuff to do in Tenerife

= Introduction =

This is just basically a list of links and stuff for an upcoming holiday.

Book today to save an extra £30 off your holiday. Use code 21923 - offer ends 22nd September.

= Booking details =
  * Booked @ Thomson
  * Harriet DDI: 01686 621 249
  * Terminal 2, Thomson desk (to pick up tickets) then check in desk
  * Ref: 1905477
  * £289pp, £578 total

= Details =

Hotel and flight: 
  * Hotel: [http://tinyurl.com/5txhgm2 Villa Mandi], [http://tinyurl.com/6cz3bho MAP]
  * Flight out: Fri 30 Sep 2011 20:40 -> 01:10
  * Flight return: Sat 08 Oct 2011 01:05 -> 05:15.
  * 15-20mins walk away from Los Cristianos and Las Americas
  * Hotel looks clean
  * Total via website: £658 (£329pp)
  * Eat out at chill out (recommendation).
  * Mainly flat so easy walk.
  * Give 'little Italy's' a miss.

Car hire:
  * URL: http://www.arcarhire.com/
  * Car: Citroen C3 5 person
  * Location: Tenerife South
  * Pickup: 2011-10-01 01:00
  * Return: 2011-10-08 00:00

Bartering:
  * Same flight times with Thomas Cook themselves: £167
  * Fri 30 Sep 09:30 MAN – 14:00 TFS, Sat 08 Oct 01:05 TFS – 05:15 MAN: £126
  * Thomas cook @ HG Tenerife Sur Apartments
  * Price £309 (£293 without transfer), closer to los cristianos, similar good reviews to above
  * Thomas cook charged a £42 transfer fee, and £30 late booking fee

Places to go:
  * The drive over Tiede is absolutely stunning (up and over via Vilaflor and the long road back down via Tamaimo through the lava fields & forest are my favourite drives of anywhere.)
  * Visit the Monkey Park it is AMAZING and only 10euros per adult.
  * I was also going to recommend a trip to Masca (a precariously perched mountain village) but due to the rather steep/narrow road and as a first-time driver using the right-hand side of the road, maybe save that for another time!
  * [http://www.loroparque.com/en/ Loro Parque] 33 EUR each (buy twin ticket from here to save time - if Ems wants to go to a water park :) When you get in go straight to the counter ( to the right as you go in ) that provides locker keys etc as the queue gets long very quickly.)
  * [http://www.tenerifewaterpark.com/ Siam park] 32 EUR each