#summary Lots of useful links (or at least I think so)

= Introduction =

Links which I have read, or intend reading.

== Networking ==

  * [http://www.netfilter.org/documentation/HOWTO//networking-concepts-HOWTO.html Linux Networking Concepts]
  * [http://www.netfilter.org/documentation/index.html Netfilter docs]

== Flash ==

  * [http://www.devpro.it/xmlsocket/ Flash communication] - Communication via flash over an XMLSocket
  * [http://translate.google.co.uk/translate?js=y&prev=_t&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&layout=1&eotf=1&u=http%3A%2F%2Fblog.datacompboy.ru%2F2009%2F10%2F19%2Fwavplayer-flash-player-for-asterisk-sounds%2F&sl=ru&tl=en Flash WAV/AU/GSM player] - Awesome free flash app to play wav files.
{{{
    .au     G711u, G711a, PCM format, any samplerate/channels
    .wav    G711u, G711a, PCM, GSM 6.10 (MS) formats, any samplerate/channels
     .wav49 just alias of .wav, can content any of wav codecs
    .gsm    raw GSM 6.10
    .sln    raw PCM 16bit-signed 8kHz
     .raw   alias of .sln
    .alaw   raw G711a 8kHz mono
     .al    alias of .alaw
    .ulaw   raw G711u 8kHz mono
     .ul    alias of .ulaw
     .mu    alias of .ulaw
     .pcm   alias of .ulaw
}}}

== Databases ==

  * [http://www.4guysfromrolla.com/webtech/041807-1.shtml Database change auditing]

== Linux ==

  * [http://iptables-tutorial.frozentux.net/iptables-tutorial.html iptables]

== Javascript ==

  * [http://www.reindel.com/five_javascript_tricks_jquery/ jQuery tricks] - Form Field Value Swap, Characters Remaining Countdown, Simply Centered Informational DIV Popup, Collapsing Table Columns, The RSS Feed Reader.

== Software ==

  * [http://www.debugmode.com/wink/ Wink] - Open source flash tutorial and presentation software
  * [http://www.autohotkey.com/ Auto Hot Key] - Open source software to create macros, to be used with wink?

== Learning ==

  * [http://www.livescience.com/health/070208_intelligence_growth.html The brain is like a muscle] - How to create interest in children by telling them how the brain creates neurons and grows strong like a muscle
  * [http://www.videojug.com/film/how-to-use-hyphens-and-dashes How to use hyphens] - Nice video tutorial on how to use hyphens.
  * [http://www.videojug.com/film/how-to-use-commas How to use commas] - Nice tutorial from videojug again.

== XBMC ==

  * [http://www.xbmc.org/wiki/?title=Adding_Media_Sources#Through_Sources.xml XBMC Adding Sources]
  * [http://www.teamrazorfish.co.uk/mediastream.html Media stream] - Skin
  * [http://www.thebitjockey.com/xbmcplugins/ Music plugin]
  * [http://www.box.net/xbmcscripts Scripts] - MyTV, radiotimes scraper (and other scripts)
  * [http://mediainfoplus.com/ MIP] - Software to manage all the fanart for movies, music etc..

== Miscellaneous ==
  * [http://yourtotalhealth.ivillage.com/backyard-barbeque-harmful-your-health.html BBQs and your health] - Tips for my mum when doing BBQs!
  * [http://www.mortgagesexposed.com/Spreadsheets/Flexible%20Mortgages.xls] - Speadsheet for mortgage overpayments
  * [http://www.listentotaxman.com/ UK PAYE income tax calculator] - Very cool
  * [http://www.postcode-info.co.uk/counties.html Postcodes] - Nice information about postcodes and related towns etc...
  * [http://www.zipcodeworld.com/developers.htm Distance calculation] - Lots of distance calculation - in multiple languages - using the longitude and latitude.